Villagers:

Niq- Polar bear/the sun
Tok- God of hunting/spontaneous and versatile/generous/clear sky
Gak- rib *village elder*
Lok- warrior or god of stars
Mak- raven or the creater of light *village senior*

Tuq- fish catcher

Niq is piling rocks on top of his mother's body in the village cemetery, as part of a traditional funeral ceremony. The cemetery is an area on the outskirts of the village, surrounded by a crude fence made from driftwood, with graves marked by piles of rocks that usually stood about 6ft tall. Tok and Lok arrive, having just returned from hunting. They mention that their hunting was not successful, so they're going to see if they can help out with Tuq, who is fishing, and Niq decides to join them.

They arrive on the shore of a bay to find Tuq is having limited success with fishing.Tuq asks how Tok's and Lok's hunt went, and Tok mentions elk was one that they were hunting days earlier, but had to call off their chase when it ran into the woods, lamenting that the village elders do not allow hunting in the woods, as it is the home to spirits they do not wish to anger.

The four of them go about pulling in the nets that Tuq has set and collecting the few caught fish into stone boxes along the shore. Most of the boxes sit empty, however, and Niq suggests they should go and hunt in the woods. The others seem interested, and Mak, a village senior, overhears them and tries to dissuade them. While the others think Mak is trying to protect the spirits, Mak suggests that most of the village respect and listen to the elders, and that disobeying them could split the village, which will ultimately be worse for the village than the current food shortage.

Mak suggests, instead, they make camp near the woods and set traps on the outskirts, thereby not encroaching on the woods and keeping the elders happy. He also suggests they move quickly, as the weather is uncharacteristically good for the time of year, and it won't stay that way for long. Furthermore, the recent snowstorm has left fresh snow on the ground that will make tracking elk easier.

As Niq is leaving the shore, he looks out across the bay and sees a lone male elk (bull) standing on a distant part of the island. He heads back to his hut to gather gear and is approached by Gak, a village elder, and Mak, the senior who spoke with him while fishing. Gak expresses concern upon hearing that they are planning on hunting so close to the woods, worried that he will anger the spirits and doom the village. He insists that Mak go with them to make sure they don't encroach on the spirits' land. Mak gives Niq a knowing look, and Niq agrees to take Mak along.

As Niq and Mak head to the meeting point on the edge of town, Niq scolds him for telling the elders about their plan. Mak assures them they would have found out either way, and at least this way they believe Mak will be keeping an eye on them, as opposed to one of the elders insisting they do it themselves (or preventing the hunting expedition from occuring entirely).

They meet up with Tuq, Tok and Lok and head off. The walk to the woods takes two days. They mostly walk in silence, mostly caused by the awkwardness of Mak's presence, as they are unsure if they can fully trust him. Niq is lost in thought regarding the traditions of his village, which his mother followed. He is concerned at the possibility that the younger generation, of which he is a part, not following tradition is the reason the village is going through famine, and whether the spirits and all the elders talk about are real.

As they walk, Mak tries to ease the tension by talking about some of the landmarks they can see, both in passing and in the distance, and what the elders believe about them. He is careful to word the beliefs as beliefs and not as fact, or as his beliefs, to try to gain the trust of the rest of the crew. As the day wares on, he mentions a few places nearby he knows of where they can camp for the night. Tok says they are already heading towards a natural alcove up ahead that he and Lok use regularly. They soon arrive, and sit around the fire discussing their hunting plans, which was mostly Tok and Lok discussing the specifics, as they were the most knowledgable of the area, and of hunting.

After failing to fall asleep where he lay, Niq walks to the edge of the alcove, looking out on the moonlit landscape. After some time, he is joined by Tuq. She expresses her condolances about Niq's mother, and apologises for not being able to help in some way. Niq says he understands that she and the other fishermen are almost entirely relied upon to supply food for the village at the moment, so he understands that she has been incredibly busy lately. They look out at the sea and stars and talk about their childhood together, and the future of the village. They both express uncertainty as to whether the village was more vibrant when they were children, or whether they were just blissfully unaware of the problems happening arround them, and both fear that the village could actually be on the verge of collapse at the moment. They decide to both try to forget about the big picture for the moment and try to just focus on one thing at a time (being, currently, the hunt). They share a kiss/make love and fall asleep where they lay.

The next morning, the team head off and are slightly more talkative than the previous day. While conversation is still mostly consisting of Mak talking about various landmarks and what the elders believe about them and stories of occurences from his younger years, this time he is often asked further questions, stimulating further conversation.

With still a few hours walk away from the spirits' woods, the wind starts to pick up and both visibility and temperature drop dramatically. Tok is concerned they won't reach their next shelter before they get hit by a storm, and Mak offers to lead them to a nearby location he knows of. Tok reluctantly agrees, and leads them to a crevasse that is well hidden from the path they were on. Leading them further in, they come across some very old wooden remains, and take shelter inside.

The flabbergasted Tok and Lok ask how he knew of this place, as they know the area very well and had never heard of these ruins. Mak tells a story of he and Niq's mother, who he reveals was a troublesome prankster in her younger days. She had painstakingly transported and built some fake remains of an ancient ship, and managed, for a time, to convince the elders that it was a boat the spirits had originally used when they used to roam the seas. They were beached in a huge storm that sent their boat miles and miles inland, and then started inhabiting the area. A skeptical Tok asks why they had never heard this before, and Mak replies that the elders were so embarrassed when Niq's mother finally came clean that they refused to believe her and tried to cover the whole affair up.

They sleep the night and set off the next morning in better weather. Niq has some mild conversation with Mak about his mother, but he finds himself mostly talking with Tuq about these revalations about his mother. Tuq starts talking with Mak in order to distract him (At the request of Tok), and Toq, Loq and Niq start discussing how they are going to go about their hunting expedition, with their fear that Mak was sent with them to ensure they didn't hunt within the woods themselves. During this discussion of various tasks they can give Mak to distract him (such as fetching water), Tok coldly says that, in the worst case scenario, they can 'accidentally' kill Mak in a hunting accident, or with a misfire from one of their traps. Niq is shocked at how inhumane Tok is coming across as, but Tok responds by saying that if their hunting expedition should fail, more villagers will likely die as his mother did.

That afternoon, they come across the woods and begin to set up their less-temporary camp, and Tok conscripts Tuq and Mak to fetch water from a nearby stream. Realising he is being sent on errands as a distraction, Mak mentions that he has no issue with them hunting in the woods, and only asks that they at least attempt the original plan of setting traps outside of the woods before they resort to hunting within them. While Tuq and Mak are fetching water, Tok mentions that he still doesn't entirely trust Mak, and that they should keep a very close eye on him.

That night, Tok and Lok tell humerous stories around the fireplace of mishaps on their various hunting quests about the island. After a moment of quiet, Lok directly asks Mak why he would defy his orders and allow them to hunt in the woods. Mak says that the continuation of the previous night's story about Niq's mother is that the woods were deemed sacred as a direct result of Niq's mother's prank, despite it being one of the primary hunting sites on the island. That night, Niq again fails to sleep, haunted by the possibility that his mother's prank caused her own death years later, and could have even doomed the village. Similar to two nights prior, he sits beyond the edge of the camp and looks into the starlit woods. Tuq tries to comfort him but he asks to be left alone, and he walks, in darkness, into the woods.

Niq finds the woods to be eerily quiet and windless, despite the trees being reasonably spaced apart from one another. He finds a tree to sit up against, closes his eyes, and tries to listen for any animals. He finds, however, that he can only hear silence. After a time of trying to listen, he realises he can hear a very quiet and distant sound. He follows the sound further into the woods, and realises what he is hearing are voices. Thinking he has likely become disoriented and is now walking back to camp, he follows the sound further. The voices subside and he can hear the crackling of a campfire. Still believing he is walking back towards his own camp, he continues, eventually coming across a campfire in the middle of the woods. It looks very different to his camp's fire: this one is surrounded by a more permanent rocky circle. Despite the fire burning, there are no people around. Very concerned now, he moves quickly back in the direction he had come from, trying to retrace his steps.

Using the limited view of the stars he can see through the trees, he eventually finds his way to the edge of the woods, where he realises the wind has picked up significantly (which he had been protected from in the woods). Again, using the stars, he works out where he is relative to the woods and starts moving towards them, following the edge of the woods. As he gets closer, he hears what sounds like screams but is likely just the wind. As he gets closer still, he sees what looks like a small tree stump sitting just outside the treeline. As he gets closer, he realises it is a person. Closer still, he realises that it is a dead body in a kneeling position and without a head, which looks to have been cut off. He recognises the clothes as belonging to Mak, and hears again what he realises are actually screams on the wind. He races on towards the camp, and comes across Lok, who is lying, bloody, face-up in the snow, but still alive. He asks Lok who has attacked them, but Lok is too delirious to even notice Niq kneeling above him, instead speaking softly in gibberish. He takes Lok's tomahawk and moves closer to the camp and sees Tok attacking Tuq with a spear.

Niq calls out, which distracts Tok, at which point Tuq turns to run. Tok throws his spear, hitting Tuq in the back. Niq throws his tomahawk and hits Tok in the chest. He runs at Tok, who removes the tomahawk and advances on Niq. Niq tackles Tok to the ground, taking a hit from the machete in his leg in the process. He tries to disarm Tok, but Tok eventually embeds the tomahawk in Niq's stomach. Niq eventually manages to pin Tok down and strangles him to death.

As Niq reels from the emotion and adrenaline of what has just happened, he sees Tuq charging at him with the spear she had previously been hit with. He calls out her name, but notices her eyes are glazed over and she is screaming the same sounding gibberish that Lok had been speaking earlier. As he says her name one last time, she impales him on the spear.
