Set in fictional town of Promontory, small coastal town in very North Canada.

Victor is a vet sent to the town to investigate the mysterious deaths of a significant number of domesticated elk, which are farmed in Promontory.

Victor is an experienced vet in his 40s. He has been struggling for years to deal with the collapse of his marriage (which he believes was brought about because he was having an affair), and took the job on mostly as an excuse to go somewhere far away and secluded.

** The reason his marriage actually fell apart is because he has an addiction to opioids that he has access to through his job as a vet. Unbenownst to him, his wife didn't actually know about the affair.

Victor arrives in Promontory by boat, which is the only way to reach the town. Due to the rocky coastline and dangerous sea conditions, there are a litany of lights stationed on various rocky outcrops and bouys that boats use to navigate the treacherous waters.

Victor arrives in late September, when there are only a few hours on sunlight per day. It is also the month of the year with the most snowfall.

Victor books into a hotel/cottage to get some rest and try to get over his seasickness.

He meets with Pat. Pat is the farmer that Victor mostly deals with, who has lost a number of elk. He is in his late 20s, and took over the farm when his father died a few years prior.

Pat takes Victor to show the lastest victim. The elk carcass had been loaded onto a trailer. Victor has the trailer moved into a shed. It is mostly hard to recognise and has been almost entirely ripped apart. Victor notices that there seem to be some bite marks from the animal being eaten, but that they seem small enough to probably be scavengers and not the killer.

They visit the site where the elk was found, with Victor hoping he can find some tracks or other evidence. At the site they, there is not much on the ground, as there has been heavy snowfall. He does notice, however, some damaged trees nearby.

** The damage was actually caused by the very elk that died. There is a type of plant that actually grows in this particular climate. It looks innocent enough and is mostly harmless, except for a very rare flower that briefly appears on the plant when it is buried in snowfall (meaning this flower is rarely, if ever, seen). The flower quickly dies, leaving behind seeds that are distributed by animals walking through the snow, or spread as the snow melts into water. The flower, when mixed with water, is very toxic, resulting in any creature that drinks the mixture becoming increasingly aggressive, ultimately resulting in them thrashing about and literally tearing themselves apart.

** The very rare circumstances that need to occur for this plant to be mixed with water and ingested are for there to be significant snowfall (resulting in the flowers growing in the snow), then for there to be a period of warm weather that melts the snow before the flower dies (so melted snow mixes with the flower) and then drains into a body of water that an animal then drinks from.

** There are two abandoned settlements nearby: one is a very old Inuit village that was abandoned when some locals drank contaminated water. The surviving members of the settlement left, thinking the island was haunted or cursed in some way. The other settlement, much more modern, was a military research facility. It was quarantined and fenced off by the military when some locals drank contaminated water. They believed the town had been hit by some kind of contaigen or bio-weapon and so abandoned the inhabitants and covered up the existance of the facility.

Victor theorises that the tree damage was caused by a skuffle with some other animal or pack of animals, and believes there may be some currently unknown animals such as bears or wolves that scaresly inhabit the island and decides to seek out an old native, remembering mention of the native belief of some kind of bigfoot type creature.

Victor finds out about an old woman called Ila who lives on the outskirts of town. He visits her the next day, finding her to be not home. He stumbles upon her as a storm bears down on them. They take refuge inside her house, where he asks about the traditional stories of any kind of creatures of monsters in the area. Ili mentions that she fell out with her family when she was quite young, so doesn't know a lot about her culture and the stories of her people. She does have vague memories of a story about some villagers who believed the elders were too scared of the spirits of the woods, leading the village to go hungry. The villagers set out on an expedition into the woods to create their own village. They failed to return after a week, and the elders, believing the breakaway villagers may have angered the spirits of the woods, set out themselves to find them and bring them back to the village.

What they found were remains only recognisable by the engravings on their weapons. The spirits, they said, were not violent, and punishment would have come in the form of fewer caught fish, poorer harvests, and poor weather. The elders believed, instead, that infighting as to who would be the chief(?) of the new village caused them to attack one another, resulting in them all dying. Victor doesn't believe this explanation, however, as it didn't explain why there wasn't at least one survivor. Furthermore, if killing rivals/potential chiefs, it would only require killing, and so the fact that the bodies were so badly mutilated didn't seem to fit.

Victor looks out the window at the rain and is impressed at the sound proofing of the house, as he can hardly hear the storm. He then remarks that the house seems considerably larger on the inside than it did from the outside. Ila says there are many things on the island that aren't what they seem, and while she doesn't believe anyone there would try to hurt him, it is still dangerous and he should be careful. He sleeps the night in a spare room.

The next morning, Victor leaves his bedroom to see Ila coming in through the back door with some wood for her fire. Upon telling her he needs to head back to Pat to look at the elk remains (in Pat's shed) again. Ila says he should make a habit of leaving through the same door he came in, warning him that it is very easy to get disoriented and lost outside of town without any landmarks around. He leaves and walks back towards town, again noting that the house looks much smaller now that he's outside. He also notes that the door he believed she had just come through had a very old and latched padlock on the outside, before acknowledging he must, indeed, be disoriented and that he must have actually seen her come in through a door on the other side of the house.

Victor heads back to Pat's shed to inspect the elk remains again, only to find that the body had decomposed more than he felt it should have, only last seen it two days prior. He considers trying to find the spot where the body was found to re-examine it, but decides against trying to find it on his own, instead choosing to return to his hotel/cottage to go over the evidence he had collected already. As he was leaving the shed, however, he runs into Pat, who tells him another elk has been found dead. Pat mentions there is bad weather approaching, and that they should head off now if they are to avoid being caught in it. Pat leads Vincent back into the shed and through to a connecting garage, where they get in Pat's truck and head off (with Vincent remarking how he left a building through a different door to which he entered).

They arrive at the site of the latest elk death. Victor notes the body looks almost identical to the remains he first saw in Pat's shed, and the nearby foliage looked similar to the site that had examined where the other elk had died. In fact, he thinks, the entire site looks almost exactly the same. This time, however, he could see blood on the mostly-snowfree ground, showing the area in which the elk had been attacked (confirmed by the damage to the foliage), as well as a trail of blood and more minor damage heading away. While Victor admitted he was no tracker, he said it looked as though the elk was running and thrashing about alone, as opposed to being chased and attacked by another animal. Pat and Victor followed the trail and found it ended where there was a lot of disturbed ground. 

Victor suggests a predator snuck up on the herd and singled out one of the elk, separating it from the herd. As they head back to the truck, passing the site of the elk's body, Victor notices that there seems to be more than four hooves. As he looks closer at the remains, Victor realises that there are, in fact, two bodies, blaming the destructive nature of the attack for not realising sooner. Pat finds the other two hooves slightly further away, stuck in the ground near one of the trees. The site reminds him of Ila's story of the missing villagers, and he decides to visit her again.

With winds increasing and visibility lowering, Victor arrives at Ila's and, once again, finds what appears to be an abandoned house and no sign of Ila. With the wind and snow increasing dramatically, he lets himself in to her house to wait for her. Heading further into the house, he notices that, through the windows, the snow looks more like rain, which was what he had seen through the windows when he first arrived. Seeing no sign of Ila, and with the snowstorm bearing down, he decides to start a fire, making use of the wood that he had seen Ila bring in as he was last leaving her house.

He is surprised to find her wood reserves empty, however, and decides he should quickly get some more from outside before the snow picks up much more. He opens the back door (that he saw Ila coming in through with wood) and is surprised to see that the wind and snow has died down. Suspecting it is just a lull in the storm that is still bearing down on the cottage, he heads to the wood pile before being spotted by Ila.

Ila remarks that she has something to show him, and they head off into the woods.










-----
Victor theorised that this elk may have been poisioned and started acting erratically, at which point it scared off the rest of its herd, explaining why there was only one set of tracks leading from here to the body. Victor theorises various known parasites and diseases known to affect elk, but that they usually weaken the elk to the point of death, as opposed to making them aggressive and violent to the point of unintentional suicide.

While Pat seems relieved at Victor's theory that there is no large animal or beast that is killing the elk (which would therefore be a danger to people on the island), Victor says that a biological or parasitic cause is much more dangerous: whatever is affecting these elk seems to be something that doesn't fit with any known parasite or disease, meaning there is nothing to say that this isn't transmissible to humans, either through eating the meat of an infected elk, or airborne, or through other close contact. Victor impresses that this is potentially a much more dangerous and invisible enemy. Victor mentions that the increasing cases amongst elk suggest it is transmissible between elk, and that he should make sure any elk that were in contact with or near any elk that has died should be quarantined.
-----
