	1. Comfort zone

Mary enjoying life on the farm and in town. She takes on the persona of a cowboy to keep things interesting.


	2. Need or desire

She finds out a film crew is in town filming a cowboy film and is torn between an opportunity to take her persona (the main "interesting" part of her life) and the comfort and responsibility she has on the farm and in town.

Mary helps out with the production, at first just running errands, but then acting as a minor technical advisor and even background extra.

Her father and brother are less than thrilled at her spending less time helping out on the farm.

She follows the production to the next shooting location, abandoning her responsibilities on the farm and instead seeking adventure.


	3. Unfamiliar situation

The production is interrupted by a sweeping war, and Mary flees back home. She is too late, as her town and farm have been destroyed. Her father is dead.

Mary finds her brother, Zeke. Mary, Chip and Zeke hear of a naturally fortified (by terrain/canyons?) town that survived most of the onslaught of war and begin a journey to it.


	4. Adaption

Mary adapts to life in this new anarchistic world left behind by the war sweeping through, using her newfound confidence, and adapting her on-screen skills to real life (with some teething issues, which Chip can help out with).

Mary and Zeke come to realise that The Big War never truly ended, and that they just happened to live in a town well protected by both its strategic insignificance and by natural terrain.


	5. Get what they wanted

Mary achieves beyond what she set out to do, becoming a successful gunslinger in a real-life frontier/Western setting.

The three have a successful journey and gain traction and confidence on the way.


	6. But pay a price

Mary must live with the guilt that she left her family just before a war swept through, wondering if anything would have turned out differently for them (and the farm) if she had been there.

She also knows she cannot go back to the mundane world she came from, as she has become increasingly accustomed to the the violence she encountered on her journey.

Mary and Zeke reach the town and find it is run by a ruthless militia. They escape and, having nowhere else safe to go, decide to return home, hoping that the war has truly swept through and left habitable land and buildings behind.


	7. Return to comfort

Mary and Zeke return home and have to clear out their old farm of armed squatters.


	8. Having changed

Mary has grown a newfound appreciation for Zeke, and has developed maturity to not recklessly abandon others (as she felt she did when she initially followed the film production).


