Chip Mulaney
------------

Real name is Jim McCraw

Former leader of a ruthless gang called _____

Left the gang when he met his wife, ____. They had a daughter, ____ (young, a child).

The gang tracked him down and, while attempting to kill Jim, accidentally killed his daughter. Jim saught revenge and persued the old members of the gang. To this day he carries a checklist of names, most of whom are crossed out. While he was "dealing" with the loss of his daughter by seeking out revenge, he was neglecting his wife, who needed his support for her own grieving.

There was a river near their property, and she wanted to move the belongings they most treasured onto the boat and live on the boat/river for some time, believing the water could wash away her grief. While Jim was out on one of his revenge expeditions, Mary committed suicide by walking into the river.

Jim realised he had been neglecting his wife to serve his own misguided revenge, and knew if he had put as much time into building a boat as he had on tracking down the old members of his gang, ____(wife) could have "washed away" her grief on the boat instead of resorting to walking into the river.

After this, Jim loaded his boat onto a trailer, set fire to his old house, and drove the boat away in a hope to wash away his own guilt and eventually finish the boat he had promised his wife.

Because of the notoriety of his former gang, he assumed a new name of Chip Mulaney, which was the name of a young boy (late teens?) he had intended to spare during a bank robbery with his former gang. The authorities arrived and a hostage situation ensued (during which time Jim got to know the boy's name). The boy was killed in the ensuing melee. This was Jim's first push towards leaving the gang and his outlaw ways behind. During his time talking to Chip, Jim learned that he was a drifter who had no family or friends anywhere nearby, and remembered thinking that if Chip were to die, Jim would probably be the only person who would know his name.

Chip, a natural left-handed shooter, had to learn to shoot right-handed after his left elbow was hit with shrapnel from a ricochetting bullet, an injury sustained while on one of his many revenge missions.
